Add blog post for Structured Authz beta (#45137)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-04-xx-structured-authz-beta.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Multi-Webhook Authorization Made Easy'
date: 2024-04-nn

> slug: multi-webhook-authorization-made-easy

Reviewer: Thinking more about the title. Should we instead focus on "Authorization made more modular and powerful"?

The feature did start with the thought of adding multiple authz webhooks support but we achieved much more in the process.

Author: sounds good. 
how about `Enhancing Security: Simplified Multi-Webhook and Modular Authorization`
I would like to keep multi-webhook if possible since that is the main pain point and motivation driving this enhancement

define complex, fine-grained authorization policies. The latest Structured
Authorization Configuration feature ([KEP-3221](https://kep.k8s.io/3221)) aims
to revolutionize this aspect by introducing a more structured and versatile way
to configure the authorization chain, focusing on enabling multiple webhooks and
providing explicit control mechanisms such as the explicit Deny authorizer.

## The Need for Improvement
Cluster administrators have long sought the ability to specify multiple
authorization webhooks within the API Server handler chain. This need arises
from the desire to create layered security policies, where requests can be
validated against multiple criteria or sets of rules in a specific order. The
previous limitations also made it difficult to declaratively configure the
authorizer chain, leaving no room to efficiently manage complex authorization
scenarios.

The [Structured Authorization Configuration
feature](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#configuring-the-api-server-using-an-authorization-config-file)
addresses these limitations by introducing a configuration file format to
configure Kubernetes API Server Authorization chain. This format allows

> specifying multiple webhooks in the authorization chain while all other types of
> authorizers should at most be specified once. Each webhook authorizer comes with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specifying multiple webhooks in the authorization chain (all other authorization types
are specified no more than once). Each webhook authorizer comes with
```

      # the contents would be converted to the v1 version before evaluating the CEL expression.
      #
      # Documentation on CEL: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/cel/
      #
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests to kube-system
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'kube-system'
      # don't intercept requests from kube-system service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:kube-system' in request.user.groups)
  - type: Node
    name: node
  - type: RBAC
    name: rbac
  - type: Webhook
    name: in-cluster-authorizer
    webhook:
      authorizedTTL: 5m
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: NoOpinion
      connectionInfo:
        type: InClusterConfig
```

The following configuration examples illustrate real world scenarios that need
the ability to specify multiple webhooks with distinct settings, precedence
order, and failure modes.

### Protecting Installed CRDs
Ensuring the availability of Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) at cluster

> startup has been a key demand, One of the blockers for having a controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
startup has been a key demand. One of the blockers for having a controller
```

reconciling those CRDs is to have a protection mechanism for them, which can be

> achieved through multiple Authorization Webhooks. This was not possible before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
achieved through an authorization webhooks. This was not possible before as specifying multiple authorization webhooks in the handled chain was simply not possible.
```

Now with the Structured Authorization Configuration feature, administrators can
specify multiple webhooks offering a solution where RBAC falls short, especially
in denying permissions to 'non-system' users for certain CRDs.

Assuming the following for this scenario:
- The "protected" CRDs are installed in the kube-system namespace.
- They can only be modified by users in the group

>   `system:serviceaccounts:kube-superuser`

Reviewer 2: this means "any service account in the kube-superuser namespace"... was that intentional? if not, maybe swap this out for a more clearly fake example group (maybe a non-serviceaccounts one)?

Author: I took this from the KEP. it's using 
> They can only be modified by users in the group "system:serviceaccounts:kube-superuser"

how about `admin` or `crd-admin`

Reviewer 2: yeah, either of those sgtm

```yaml
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationConfiguration
authorizers:
  - type: Webhook
    name: system-crd-protector
    webhook:
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      matchConditionSubjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: Deny
      connectionInfo:
        type: KubeConfig
        kubeConfigFile: /files/kube-system-authz-webhook.yaml
      matchConditions:
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests to kube-system

>       - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'kube-system'

Reviewer 2: CRDs are namespaced, so this condition means this webhook wouldn't intercept any CRD requests ... should this be 
```
- expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.resource = "customresourcedefinitions"
- expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.group = ""
```

Author: Do you mean the CRDs (not CRs) are cluster scoped and therefore, we should remove this check 
>  expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'kube-system'

with

>  expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.resource = "customresourcedefinitions" 
>  expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.group = ""

Reviewer 2: oops, yes 🤦

      # don't intercept requests from kube-system service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:kube-system' in request.user.groups)
      # only intercept update, delete or deletecollection requests

>       - expression: request.resourceAttributes.verb in ['update', 'delete','deletecollection']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.verb in ['update', 'patch', 'delete', 'deletecollection']
```

  - type: Node
  - type: RBAC
```

### Preventing unnecessarily nested webhooks
A system administrator wants to apply specific validations to requests before
handling them off to webhooks using frameworks like Open Policy Agent. In the
past, this would require running nested webhooks within the one added to the
authorization chain to achieve the desired result. The Structured Authorization
Configuration feature simplifies this process, offering a structured API to
selectively trigger additional webhooks when needed. It also enables
administrators to set distinct failure policies for each webhook, ensuring more
consistent and predictable responses.

```yaml
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationConfiguration
authorizers:

>   - name: system-crd-protector

Reviewer 2: copy any changes from the above CRD comments to this example

      # only intercept requests to kube-system
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'kube-system'
      # don't intercept requests from kube-system service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:kube-system' in request.user.groups)
  - type: Node
  - type: RBAC
  - name: opa
    type: Webhook
    webhook:
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      matchConditionSubjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: Deny
      connectionInfo:
        type: KubeConfig
        kubeConfigFile: /files/opa-default-authz-webhook.yaml
      matchConditions:
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests to default namespace
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'default'
      # don't intercept requests from default service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:default' in request.user.groups)
```

## What's next?
For Kubernetes v1.31, we expect the feature to stay in beta while we get more
feedback. Then once the feature is ready for GA, the feature flag will be

> removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
removed and the configuration file version will be promoted to v1.
```

You can learn more about this feature on the [structured authorization
configuration](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#configuring-the-api-server-using-an-authorization-config-file)
Kubernetes doc website. You can also follow along on the
[KEP-3221](https://kep.k8s.io/3221) to track progress across the coming
Kubernetes releases.

## Call to action
In this post, we have covered the benefits the Structured Authorization
Configuration feature brings in Kubernetes v1.30 and few sample configurations
for real world scenarios. To use this feature, you must specify the path to the
authorization configuration using the `--authorization-config` command line
argument. From Kubernetes 1.30, the feature is in beta and enabled by default.
If you want to keep using command line flags instead of a configuration file,

> those will continue to work as-is. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
those will continue to work as-is. Specifying both `--authorization-config` and `--authorization-modes`/`--authorization-webhook-*` won't work. You need to drop the older flags from your kube-apiserver command.
```

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Multi-Webhook and Modular Authorization Made Easy'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes 1.30: Multi-Webhook and Modular Authorization Made Much Easier'
```
?

I'm wary of calling it easy - our readers might disagree, even if the new thing really helps.

> date: 2024-04-nn

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-25
```
Please add the assigned publication date

Reviewer 3: (this also means a file rename, I'm afraid)

slug: multi-webhook-and-modular-authorization-made-easy
---

**Authors:** [Rita Zhang](https://github.com/ritazh) (Microsoft), [Jordan
Liggitt](https://github.com/liggitt) (Google), [Nabarun
Pal](https://github.com/palnabarun) (VMware), [Leigh
Capili](https://github.com/stealthybox) (VMware)

> # Enhancing Kubernetes Authorization with Multiple Webhooks and Structured Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

or, as a subtitle (we don't usually have article subtitles)

```diff
-# Enhancing Kubernetes Authorization with Multiple Webhooks and Structured Configuration
+_Enhancing Kubernetes authorization with multiple webhooks and structured configuration_
```

      matchConditions:
      # expression represents the expression which will be evaluated by CEL. Must evaluate to bool.
      # CEL expressions have access to the contents of the SubjectAccessReview in v1 version.
      # If version specified by subjectAccessReviewVersion in the request variable is v1beta1,
      # the contents would be converted to the v1 version before evaluating the CEL expression.
      #
      # Documentation on CEL: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/cel/
      #
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests to kube-system
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'kube-system'
      # don't intercept requests from kube-system service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:kube-system' in request.user.groups)
  - type: Node
    name: node
  - type: RBAC
    name: rbac
  - type: Webhook
    name: in-cluster-authorizer
    webhook:
      authorizedTTL: 5m
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: NoOpinion
      connectionInfo:
        type: InClusterConfig
```

> The following configuration examples illustrate real world scenarios that need

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following configuration examples illustrate real-world scenarios that need
```

the ability to specify multiple webhooks with distinct settings, precedence
order, and failure modes.

### Protecting Installed CRDs
Ensuring the availability of Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) at cluster

> startup has been a key demand. One of the blockers for having a controller
> reconciling those CRDs is to have a protection mechanism for them, which can be

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
startup has been a key demand. One of the blockers of having a controller
reconcile those CRDs is having a protection mechanism for them, which can be
```

achieved through multiple authorization webhooks. This was not possible before
as specifying multiple authorization webhooks in the Kubernetes API Server

> authorization chain was simply not possible. Now with the Structured

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
authorization chain was simply not possible. Now, with the Structured
```

Authorization Configuration feature, administrators can specify multiple

> webhooks offering a solution where RBAC falls short, especially in denying

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
webhooks, offering a solution where RBAC falls short, especially when denying
```

permissions to 'non-system' users for certain CRDs.

Assuming the following for this scenario:
- The "protected" CRDs are installed.

> - They can only be modified by users in the group `admin`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- They can only be modified by users in the group `admin`.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationConfiguration
authorizers:
  - type: Webhook
    name: system-crd-protector
    webhook:
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      matchConditionSubjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: Deny
      connectionInfo:
        type: KubeConfig
        kubeConfigFile: /files/kube-system-authz-webhook.yaml
      matchConditions:
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests for CRDs
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.resource = "customresourcedefinitions"
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.group = ""
      # only intercept update, patch, delete, or deletecollection requests
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.verb in ['update', 'patch', 'delete','deletecollection']
  - type: Node
  - type: RBAC
```

### Preventing unnecessarily nested webhooks
A system administrator wants to apply specific validations to requests before

> handling them off to webhooks using frameworks like Open Policy Agent. In the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
handing them off to webhooks using frameworks like Open Policy Agent. In the
```

      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests for CRDs
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.resource = "customresourcedefinitions"
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.resource.group = ""
      # only intercept update, patch, delete, or deletecollection requests
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.verb in ['update', 'patch', 'delete','deletecollection']
  - type: Node
  - type: RBAC
  - name: opa
    type: Webhook
    webhook:
      unauthorizedTTL: 30s
      timeout: 3s
      subjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      matchConditionSubjectAccessReviewVersion: v1
      failurePolicy: Deny
      connectionInfo:
        type: KubeConfig
        kubeConfigFile: /files/opa-default-authz-webhook.yaml
      matchConditions:
      # only send resource requests to the webhook
      - expression: has(request.resourceAttributes)
      # only intercept requests to default namespace
      - expression: request.resourceAttributes.namespace == 'default'
      # don't intercept requests from default service accounts
      - expression: !('system:serviceaccounts:default' in request.user.groups)
```

## What's next?

> For Kubernetes v1.31, we expect the feature to stay in beta while we get more

Reviewer 5: > For Kubernetes v1.31, we expect the feature to stay in beta while we get more feedback.

I feel like this sentence is missing something -- is this only the process for v1.31? Is this is a general beta feature process? Who is providing the feedback?

Author: will update to
> From Kubernetes 1.30, the feature is in beta and enabled by default. For Kubernetes v1.31, we expect the feature to stay in beta while we get more feedback from users.

In general, we keep beta features around for one or two releases before promoting it to GA.

> feedback. Then once the feature is ready for GA, the feature flag will be
> removed and the configuration file version will be promoted to v1.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
feedback. Once it is ready for GA, the feature flag will be removed, and
the configuration file version will be promoted to v1.
```

> You can learn more about this feature on the [structured authorization

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Learn more about this feature on the [structured authorization
```

configuration](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#configuring-the-api-server-using-an-authorization-config-file)

> Kubernetes doc website. You can also follow along on the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Kubernetes doc website. You can also follow along on with
```

> [KEP-3221](https://kep.k8s.io/3221) to track progress across the coming

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[KEP-3221](https://kep.k8s.io/3221) to track progress in coming
```

Kubernetes releases.

## Call to action

> In this post, we have covered the benefits the Structured Authorization
> Configuration feature brings in Kubernetes v1.30 and few sample configurations
> for real world scenarios. To use this feature, you must specify the path to the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In this post, we have covered the benefits of the Structured Authorization
Configuration feature in Kubernetes v1.30 and a few sample configurations
for real-world scenarios. To use this feature, you must specify the path to the
```

those will continue to work as-is. Specifying both `--authorization-config` and
`--authorization-modes`/`--authorization-webhook-*` won't work. You need to drop
the older flags from your kube-apiserver command. 

The following kind Cluster configuration sets that command argument on the
APIserver to load an AuthorizationConfiguration from a file
(`authorization_config.yaml`) in the files folder. Any needed kubeconfig and
certificate files can also be put in the files directory.
```yaml
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
featureGates:
  StructuredAuthorizationConfiguration: true  # enabled by default in v1.30
kubeadmConfigPatches:
  - |
    kind: ClusterConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: config
    apiServer:
      extraArgs:
        authorization-config: "/files/authorization_config.yaml"
      extraVolumes:
      - name: files
        hostPath: "/files"
        mountPath: "/files"
        readOnly: true
nodes:
- role: control-plane
  extraMounts:
  - hostPath: files
    containerPath: /files
```

We would love to hear your feedback on this feature. In particular, we would
like feedback from Kubernetes cluster administrators and authorization webhook

> implementors as they go through the process of building their integrations with

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
implementors as they build their integrations with
```

this new API. Please reach out to us on the
[#sig-auth-authorizers-dev](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C05EZFX1Z2L)
channel on Kubernetes Slack.

## How to get involved

> If you are interested in getting involved in the development of this feature,
> share feedback, or participate in any other ongoing SIG Auth projects, please

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you are interested in helping develop this feature,
sharing feedback, or participating in any other ongoing SIG Auth projects, please
```

reach out on the [#sig-auth](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0EN96KUY)
channel on Kubernetes Slack.

You are also welcome to join the bi-weekly [SIG Auth
meetings](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-auth/README.md#meetings)

> held every-other Wednesday.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
held every other Wednesday.
```

> ## Acknowledgements

Reviewer 5: US spelling:
```suggestion
## Acknowledgments
```

> This feature has been an effort driven by contributors from several different
> companies. We would like to extend a huge thank you to everyone that contributed
> their time and effort to help make this possible.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This feature was driven by contributors from several different
companies. We would like to extend a huge thank you to everyone who contributed
their time and effort to make this possible.
```
